# Glance at Compiler

## Engine Comiler and Scoper

```js
var a = 2;
```

First you should know is that JavaScrite is an Compiler language even execute immediately after compile.

JS Engine(V8?) and his friends Compiler and Scoper are work together to take care of this processes.

Normally, the team take 3 stpes:

1. Tokenizing/Lexsing: Bring up a string of characters into meaningful chunks. For instance, consider the program `var a = 2;` This program would likely broken up into the following tokens: var , a , = , 2;
2. Parsing: parse to AST(abstract syntax tree)
3. Code-Generation: generate machine code(like where to store into memory). 

Especially in step 3. Compiler generate machine code split into 2 steps.

1. `var a` : Compiler will ask Scoper, has this variable in currenty scoper. Omit this if true or create a new reference into memeroy.
2. `a = 2`: Compiler still ask Scoper, do you have those variable called `a` in your scope? Get it if true or find it in outside scope.

Always focus on the current express and never take shit of the data or status before or after, that's Compiler.

Simple but stabilize.

## LHS、RHS

Compiler read the express from right to left. Consier the program `a=b;`. Compiler wants to find the variable value of `b` and use it. Normally show up right behind assignment symble, so we name it RHS(right-hand-side). On the other hand, `a=` we want find the variable `a` and assign value into it. This action we call it LHS(left-hand-side)

- RHS: we want use it's value, normally shows up right behind assignment symble.
- LHS: we want give value to him, normally shows up in the left of assignment symble.

```js
function foo(a) {
    var b = a;
    return a+b;
}
var c = foo(2)
/*
//Tokenizing : token chunk strings balabal
//Parsing: there is an ATS tree to store those chunks.
//Detail in code-generation:
1. Hmm, function keyword, OK let's take it seriously like a function
2. from right to left
3. Hi Scoper, do you have any variable called 'a'?
4. "Nope!". OK, I'll create an new local variable in foo function's scope. So there is an a;
5. Hi Scoper, do you have any idea of `foo` ?
6. "None of it". Cool， Just Create an new one.
7. Same we RHS find a and LHS find (create) b, and ready to execute until we get value;
8. RHS find b and a;
9. LFS `foo`, cause we want assign value into it. Scoper?
10. "Yeah. Got it, here it is". 
11. "Hi" do you know about a ? "YES". LHS find a and assign like `a = 2`;
12. RHS find a and LHS find b and assign like `b=a`
13. RHS find b and RHS find a;

LHS:① LHS c=.. ②LHS a=2 ③LHS b=..
RHS:①foo(2.. ② ..=a ③RHS ...b ④ RHS a..
/*
```
